README.md, before:

# Care4You | Hack4Good 2026 | Team: Hack4Fun</h1>

**Care4You** is a community-driven platform built to bridge the gap between volunteers, participants, and impactful social events. Designed for the **Hack4Good** hackathon, this mobile application streamlines event discovery and registration with a seamless "Virtual Guest" system for immediate engagement.

---

<br>

<table align="center">
  <tr>
    <td><img src="image.png" alt="Onboarding Page" width="300"/></td>
    <td><img src="image-1.png" alt="Onboarding Page 2" width="300"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### ⚠️ The Problem

**Problem Statement: "How might we reduce friction in activity sign-ups for both individuals and caregivers, while reducing manual effort for staff in managing and consolidating registration data?"**

- 👵 Elderly users often struggle with account creation before taking action
- 🧑‍⚕️ Caregivers need fast, low-friction registration without technical barriers
- 🧑‍💼 Staff face fragmented registration data and time-consuming manual consolidation

---

### 💡 Our Solution: Frictionless Participation & Management

Care4You reduces friction at both the user and staff level by removing unnecessary steps at the point of action, while ensuring data remains structured and manageable.

### 🔑 Core Principle

Lower the barrier to act — without increasing backend complexity.

---

### 🧩 Solution Breakdown by User Group

#### 👤 For Participants & Caregivers

Reduce friction at the point of action

- ⚡ Instant Guest Registration
  - Users can browse and register for activities without creating an account
  - Ideal for elderly users and first-time users

- 📅 Calendar & List View
  - Browse activities in a monthly calendar view or a scrollable list view
  - Clear, accessible overview of upcoming activities

- 🔄 Automatic Account Conversion
  - When a guest signs up or logs in, all previously registered activities are seamlessly transferred
  - No re-registration, no confusion

- 🔔 Waitlist with Auto-Promotion
  - When an event is full, users are placed on a waitlist automatically
  - If a confirmed participant pulls out, the next person on the waitlist is promoted into the event — no action needed from the user

- 🌐 LLM-Powered Translation
  - All event details created by staff are automatically translated using an LLM
  - Users can toggle between English and Chinese to view events in their preferred language

- 📢 Announcements
  - Receive real-time updates and notices from staff directly in the app
  - Stay informed on event changes, slot openings, and community news

Impact:<br>
Lower drop-off rates, higher participation, and a more inclusive experience for elderly users.

#### 🧑‍💼 For Staff & Organisers

Reduce manual work and data fragmentation

- 📝 Centralised Event Management
  - Create and manage events from a single platform

- 📊 Unified Registration Tracking
  - Guest and registered users are consolidated automatically

- 📤 CSV Export
  - One-click export of clean, structured registration data
  - Eliminates manual merging from multiple sign-up channels

- ⏱️ Real-Time Insights
  - Track participant and volunteer slots accurately

- 📱 QR Code Attendance Tracking
  - Generate time-stamped QR codes for each event
  - Scan to check in participants on the spot — replaces manual pen-and-paper attendance
  - Attendance counts are tracked separately for participants and volunteers

- 📢 Targeted Announcement Channels
  - Choose to broadcast announcements to everyone or only to people registered in a specific event
  - One post reaches the right audience — no more repeating messages across multiple channels

- 🌐 Automatic Event Translation
  - Staff create events once in one language; the system uses an LLM to translate all details automatically
  - Translation results are cached for performance

Impact:<br>
Less administrative overhead, cleaner data, and more time spent on community impact instead of paperwork.

### 🧠 Why This Matters

Instead of forcing users to adapt to the system, Care4You adapts to user behaviour, while still giving staff clean, actionable data.

---

### 🚀 Getting Started

### Option 1: Android Users (Easiest for Android)

If you have an Android device, you can install the app directly via our APK file.

1. **Download the APK:** [CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD ANDROID APK](https://expo.dev/accounts/jayyy25/projects/hack4fun/builds/dc6300ec-6540-466c-9ce6-4ca6ad6c1eb9)
2. **Install:** Open the file on your phone.
   - _Note:_ You may need to allow "Install from Unknown Sources" in your settings if prompted.
3. **Run:** Open the "Care4You" app from your app drawer.

---

### Option 2: iOS Users (Requires Mac & Xcode)

Since this is a prototype build, it runs on the **iOS Simulator** (part of Xcode) rather than a physical iPhone.

**Prerequisites:**

- A Mac computer
- Xcode installed (Free on the App Store)

**Steps:**

1. Open **Xcode** on your Mac.
2. Go to the top menu bar: **Xcode** > **Open Developer Tool** > **Simulator**. Wait for the virtual iPhone to boot up.
3. **Download the iOS Build:** [CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD .APP ZIP](https://expo.dev/accounts/jayyy25/projects/hack4fun/builds/2ef08418-5c39-4e10-a597-da0898d8f50c)
4. Unzip the file to reveal `hack4fun.app` (or similar).
5. **Drag and Drop** the `.app` file directly onto the virtual iPhone screen in the Simulator.
6. The app icon will appear on the home screen. Tap it to launch!

---

### Option 3: For Developers (Run from Source)

If you want to modify the code or run the development version on your own setup.

**Prerequisites:**

- Node.js installed
- Expo Go app installed on your physical phone (optional)

**Steps:**

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Hack4Funnn/care4you.git
   ```
2. **Navigate to frontend directory:**
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   ```
3. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
4. **Start the app:**
   ```bash
   npx expo start
   ```
5. **Scan & Run:**

- Scan the QR code with the Expo Go app (Android)
- Or press `a` to run on Android Emulator / `i` to run on iOS Simulator / `w` to run on local webpage

---

### ✨ Key Features

- **Virtual Guest System:** Users can browse and register for events immediately without an account. A unique guest ID is generated locally to track their activity. When a guest eventually signs up or logs in, all their previous event registrations are automatically migrated to their new permanent account — no re-registration needed.
- **Announcements (Global & Targeted):** Staff can broadcast announcements to all users globally or target only people registered in a specific event. Users receive real-time updates and notices directly in the app.
- **Waitlist with Auto-Promotion:** When an event reaches capacity, users are automatically placed on a waitlist. If a confirmed participant withdraws, the next person on the waitlist is promoted into the event — no action needed from the user.
- **LLM-Powered Translation:** All event details created by staff are automatically translated using an LLM (OpenAI API). Users can toggle between English and Chinese to view events in their preferred language, with translation results cached for performance.

---

### 🛠️ Tech Stack & Structure

### Technologies

| Layer        | Technology                                                     |
| :----------- | :------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Frontend** | React Native, Expo (Expo Go), Expo Router, TypeScript, i18next |
| **Backend**  | Node.js, Express (Hosted on Google Cloud)                      |
| **Database** | PostgreSQL (Supabase)                                          |
| **AI**       | OpenAI API (LLM-powered event translation)                     |
| **Storage**  | AsyncStorage for local session persistence                     |

### Project Directory

```text
├── frontend/             # Mobile Application (Focus of UI/UX)
│   ├── app/              # File-based routing (Expo Router)
│   ├── services/         # API & Auth Logic (Conversion Deal)
│   └── components/       # Reusable UI Elements
└── backend/              # SQL-based API Logic
    ├── models/           # Data migration & logic
    └── controllers/      # Auth & Registration management
```

---

### 👥 The Team

- **Team Name:** BTS CS
- **Team Lead:** Yi Jie Chong
- **Developer:** Tan Jay, Tey Yee Siang

---

Commit message:

Revise problem statement in README
Updated problem statement to include challenges faced by participants with intellectual disabilities.

README.md, after:

# Care4You | Hack4Good 2026 | Team: Hack4Fun</h1>

**Care4You** is a community-driven platform built to bridge the gap between volunteers, participants, and impactful social events. Designed for the **Hack4Good** hackathon, this mobile application streamlines event discovery and registration with a seamless "Virtual Guest" system for immediate engagement.

---

<br>

<table align="center">
  <tr>
    <td><img src="image.png" alt="Onboarding Page" width="300"/></td>
    <td><img src="image-1.png" alt="Onboarding Page 2" width="300"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

### ⚠️ The Problem

**Problem Statement: "How might we reduce friction in activity sign-ups for both individuals and caregivers, while reducing manual effort for staff in managing and consolidating registration data?"**

- 🧩 Participants with intellectual disabilities may face challenges with complex account creation and multi-step registration flows
- 🧑‍⚕️ Caregivers need fast, low-friction registration without technical barriers
- 🧑‍💼 Staff face fragmented registration data and time-consuming manual consolidation

---

### 💡 Our Solution: Frictionless Participation & Management

Care4You reduces friction at both the user and staff level by removing unnecessary steps at the point of action, while ensuring data remains structured and manageable.

### 🔑 Core Principle

Lower the barrier to act — without increasing backend complexity.

---

### 🧩 Solution Breakdown by User Group

#### 👤 For Participants & Caregivers

Reduce friction at the point of action

- ⚡ Instant Guest Registration
  - Users can browse and register for activities without creating an account
  - Ideal for elderly users and first-time users

- 📅 Calendar & List View
  - Browse activities in a monthly calendar view or a scrollable list view
  - Clear, accessible overview of upcoming activities

- 🔄 Automatic Account Conversion
  - When a guest signs up or logs in, all previously registered activities are seamlessly transferred
  - No re-registration, no confusion

- 🔔 Waitlist with Auto-Promotion
  - When an event is full, users are placed on a waitlist automatically
  - If a confirmed participant pulls out, the next person on the waitlist is promoted into the event — no action needed from the user

- 🌐 LLM-Powered Translation
  - All event details created by staff are automatically translated using an LLM
  - Users can toggle between English and Chinese to view events in their preferred language

- 📢 Announcements
  - Receive real-time updates and notices from staff directly in the app
  - Stay informed on event changes, slot openings, and community news

Impact:<br>
Lower drop-off rates, higher participation, and a more inclusive experience for elderly users.

#### 🧑‍💼 For Staff & Organisers

Reduce manual work and data fragmentation

- 📝 Centralised Event Management
  - Create and manage events from a single platform

- 📊 Unified Registration Tracking
  - Guest and registered users are consolidated automatically

- 📤 CSV Export
  - One-click export of clean, structured registration data
  - Eliminates manual merging from multiple sign-up channels

- ⏱️ Real-Time Insights
  - Track participant and volunteer slots accurately

- 📱 QR Code Attendance Tracking
  - Generate time-stamped QR codes for each event
  - Scan to check in participants on the spot — replaces manual pen-and-paper attendance
  - Attendance counts are tracked separately for participants and volunteers

- 📢 Targeted Announcement Channels
  - Choose to broadcast announcements to everyone or only to people registered in a specific event
  - One post reaches the right audience — no more repeating messages across multiple channels

- 🌐 Automatic Event Translation
  - Staff create events once in one language; the system uses an LLM to translate all details automatically
  - Translation results are cached for performance

Impact:<br>
Less administrative overhead, cleaner data, and more time spent on community impact instead of paperwork.

### 🧠 Why This Matters

Instead of forcing users to adapt to the system, Care4You adapts to user behaviour, while still giving staff clean, actionable data.

---

### 🚀 Getting Started

### Option 1: Android Users (Easiest for Android)

If you have an Android device, you can install the app directly via our APK file.

1. **Download the APK:** [CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD ANDROID APK](https://expo.dev/accounts/jayyy25/projects/hack4fun/builds/dc6300ec-6540-466c-9ce6-4ca6ad6c1eb9)
2. **Install:** Open the file on your phone.
   - _Note:_ You may need to allow "Install from Unknown Sources" in your settings if prompted.
3. **Run:** Open the "Care4You" app from your app drawer.

---

### Option 2: iOS Users (Requires Mac & Xcode)

Since this is a prototype build, it runs on the **iOS Simulator** (part of Xcode) rather than a physical iPhone.

**Prerequisites:**

- A Mac computer
- Xcode installed (Free on the App Store)

**Steps:**

1. Open **Xcode** on your Mac.
2. Go to the top menu bar: **Xcode** > **Open Developer Tool** > **Simulator**. Wait for the virtual iPhone to boot up.
3. **Download the iOS Build:** [CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD .APP ZIP](https://expo.dev/accounts/jayyy25/projects/hack4fun/builds/2ef08418-5c39-4e10-a597-da0898d8f50c)
4. Unzip the file to reveal `hack4fun.app` (or similar).
5. **Drag and Drop** the `.app` file directly onto the virtual iPhone screen in the Simulator.
6. The app icon will appear on the home screen. Tap it to launch!

---

### Option 3: For Developers (Run from Source)

If you want to modify the code or run the development version on your own setup.

**Prerequisites:**

- Node.js installed
- Expo Go app installed on your physical phone (optional)

**Steps:**

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Hack4Funnn/care4you.git
   ```
2. **Navigate to frontend directory:**
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   ```
3. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
4. **Start the app:**
   ```bash
   npx expo start
   ```
5. **Scan & Run:**

- Scan the QR code with the Expo Go app (Android)
- Or press `a` to run on Android Emulator / `i` to run on iOS Simulator / `w` to run on local webpage

---

### ✨ Key Features

- **Virtual Guest System:** Users can browse and register for events immediately without an account. A unique guest ID is generated locally to track their activity. When a guest eventually signs up or logs in, all their previous event registrations are automatically migrated to their new permanent account — no re-registration needed.
- **Announcements (Global & Targeted):** Staff can broadcast announcements to all users globally or target only people registered in a specific event. Users receive real-time updates and notices directly in the app.
- **Waitlist with Auto-Promotion:** When an event reaches capacity, users are automatically placed on a waitlist. If a confirmed participant withdraws, the next person on the waitlist is promoted into the event — no action needed from the user.
- **LLM-Powered Translation:** All event details created by staff are automatically translated using an LLM (OpenAI API). Users can toggle between English and Chinese to view events in their preferred language, with translation results cached for performance.

---

### 🛠️ Tech Stack & Structure

### Technologies

| Layer        | Technology                                                     |
| :----------- | :------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Frontend** | React Native, Expo (Expo Go), Expo Router, TypeScript, i18next |
| **Backend**  | Node.js, Express (Hosted on Google Cloud)                      |
| **Database** | PostgreSQL (Supabase)                                          |
| **AI**       | OpenAI API (LLM-powered event translation)                     |
| **Storage**  | AsyncStorage for local session persistence                     |

### Project Directory

```text
├── frontend/             # Mobile Application (Focus of UI/UX)
│   ├── app/              # File-based routing (Expo Router)
│   ├── services/         # API & Auth Logic (Conversion Deal)
│   └── components/       # Reusable UI Elements
└── backend/              # SQL-based API Logic
    ├── models/           # Data migration & logic
    └── controllers/      # Auth & Registration management
```

---

### 👥 The Team

- **Team Name:** BTS CS
- **Team Lead:** Yi Jie Chong
- **Developer:** Tan Jay, Tey Yee Siang

---
